And what is increasing? Increasing the merit, increasing the merit, accumulating merit, what's the
merit?
When the accumulation of merit and what's the merit, when we increase it, it will purify our obsc
urations,
negativities. And then, so to do that, what is in Vajrayana teaching, often we heard two stages,
two stages, you heard. I mean, you know that in Vneh Pobano, every Vajrayana Buddhist
practicing is always not two stages. Those two stages are creation stage of the visualization
and completion stage of the dissolvings. These two stages are the principal practice of the Vajray
ana
teaching and in the teaching also said is the principal. All the Buddha's teaching on the
Vajrayana is best on these two stages. So what is that? The creation stage of the visualization is
practicing on the relative truth and the practicing on the completion stage of the dissolving
is absolute truth. And these are two truths. In the great Mahathma Nagarjuna said,
whatever Buddha gives the teaching is best on the two truths, what are these two truths? Is it
relative
truths? Absolute truths. Those are two truths. In Vajrayana teaching, creation stage and
the completion stages. Creation stage of the visualization and completion stage of the
dissolvings. That's what I'm translating and many of you know that. And the creation stage means
what?
Creation. We are in a way created by mentally. Mentally creating. Is we creating that? We created
that. Not just we're creating that, but we follow in the instructions of the great state of
Buddha Shakyamuni or Buddha Vyajit Dara or Vyajit Sattva or great Buddha Shakyamuni or
Murpaya Masambha. Their instructions and then we're creating mentally, publicating
the meditation. That's called the creation stage. Then commonly in English it's called
the visualizations. So you're visualizing something, but that is created by the mind.
Is a relative truth. And then the completion stage is what that means. Completing every duality
or dissolving every duality, the conceptions, and then meditating. And that is the absolute truth.
Absolute truth. So these two stages. The fourth is in the Vyajit Dara teaching teach. The fourth
stage, which is creation stages. So now these creation stages many of you all know. We visualize.
Whatever we do practice meditation in the Vyajit Dara teaching, most of the time we
visualize. Possibly we visualize. And that is for example here. Here in this teaching when you look
through here. In the footnote Vyajit Seven. Vyajit Seven. Instantly one's self and the deity in the
front appeared clearly as Vyajit Dara and Guru Vyajit Masambha. In the form of the Buddha Amitayo.
Instantly appeared. So that means we propagate it by the mind. Here Anstokan said that you should
instantly become the Guru Vyajit Masambha or the Buddha Amitayo. Inseparably we visualize. How
that, how there we should appear. So our self becomes Guru Vyajit Masambha. And then Guru Vyajit
Masambha mostly you all know the picture of the Guru Vyajit Masambha. We saw statue or tanga. And
this time Guru Vyajit Masambha is, is that sometimes Guru Vyajit Masambha is in the right
hand dojia that we're extending outside like this. Like this. And sometimes like tall heart center.
Center. But this time tall heart center. Tall heart center. And the rest suggest the same. In the
left
hand Guru Vyajit Masambha holds skull cup. Skull cup and filled with nectar. Above that, above that
nectar then there's long life. Life was V-A-S-E. And long life was, I think many of you saw the
illustration. Long life was and that as beautiful also the kind of ornaments. Ornaments.
Now maybe we're wondering how that long, the skull cup is filled with nectar. And above that,
that long life was, how can you see that it was deep inside the water nectar. Maybe you're thinking
,
or maybe I'm thinking that. Maybe you don't think that. Maybe I'm thinking how that can
dip that now. Maybe it's going to dip inside. But that whole Guru Vyajit Masambha's poem is
rainbow body. That skull cup is rainbow. That vase is rainbow. That nectar is rainbow.
What that means is light. Guru Vyajit Masambha's body is light body. And that skull cup is light
skull cup. That nectar is light. Light nectar. And that vase is nectar. Light vase. And all
beautiful
only the things, everything is light. What that light is, is the essence of the wisdom
and the compassion appeared on those poems. And Guru Vyajit Masambha's poem is wisdom and
compassion,
essence. That's called rainbow body. Whole is the cloth of wearing the ornament. Everything is
rainbow. Light. So when we visualize in Vrva Masambha or when we visualize the Buddha or the deity,
we're not going to visualize a solid object, solid like bone and muscle and all these bone
structures and all that. No. It's rainbow body. For that, you understand that realization of
brain that, obtain a teaching mechanism, you meditate the poem as a reflection moon in the water.
All images on the marrow, in the marrow, we visualize. That is Guru Vyajit Masambha's body.
And all the Buddhas when we visualize, any Buddha, any wrath of deities that appears wrath of deity
,
reality is love, compassion, wisdom that appeared in that form,
ought to defeat the neurotic duality regiment conceptions.
Novelity regiment conception is always clinging, grasping. Even in neurotic mind,
grasping, grasping itself is hallucination. It's self, self is the emptiness. There is no
substantial solid existing neurotic mind. We did not find. Buddha did not find.
But a fixation is fixed with that. That's just the idea. That is the obscurations. That is blocking
all our realization, understanding, progress, fixation, fixation. All is the mind.
Nothing. This time, very annotating is primus, breaking the duality concept, the fixation
instantly. Bring the ultimate freedom of the mind it is. Mind is freedom.
Mind is freedom. Mind is not restricted. That's why then we grasping, we clinging. We use the wrong
way. We dilute it. We make the wrong, dilute it the wrong way. And then we suffer ourself
by our own dilute, fixations. This time, we're breaking that. So we visualize
as like that, rainbow body as it is. And then also we visualize on the front.
On right in our front, maybe eye level, little bit, not exactly as our level,
but let a higher level end. Exactly same as right in front of us, we visualize. It's also transcend
ental
with no rainbow body of love and a compassion. Even though it's a rainbow body like that, as I said
,
many times, also in the teaching mentioned, it is embodiment of all the Buddhas.
Embodiment of all the enlightenment comes, triggered in one single state as that image,
that forms. That is what we're going to see. We're going to embrace that, exactly that quality,
with our courage and commitment, confidence, as I said early, without any doubt and hesitation,
and the skeptical, intellectual ideas. We pick courage, embracing that quality. That's also called
in the teaching mentioned, we are bright. We hold, we keep that, that, we stay family with that.
So with that thought, and Gurbam Masambha, which is right in front of us, us and the
the Buddha Amitayana separately, and then we joined these prayers.